---
layout: singlepost
tags: post
title: "What is it like to apply for a job as a graduate"
subtitle: "I asked the graduates i spent time with to fill out a small questionaire."
description: "I wanted to see what it was like and how long it took to get a job as a grduate in pandemic times, here are the results " # Quotation marks allow colons, semicolons, etc.
author: Padraig O'Brien
date: 2021-06-05T21:30:00 # This would be 9:30 PM (2130) UTC on February 28, 2020
lastmod: 2020-06-05T21:30:00 # Comment-out this line with a # if content is unchanged
draft: false # Make it "true" if you don't want Hugo to "publish" yet
featured_image: globe-life-park-rangers-1402096_6000x4000.jpg # Or whatever image you want to use
featured_image_alt: "Baseball game at Globe Life Park, Arlington, Texas" # Always include an ALT tag for accessibility --  Quotation marks allow colons, semicolons, etc.
featured_image_caption: "Image: rwelborn; Pixabay" # Quotation marks allow colons, semicolons, etc.
---


# Introduction
As i mentioned in my previous post, I interviewed 100 graduates and spend time with them.
I also asked them to fill out a short questionnaire.
This post gives the results of that questionnaire.
The sample size is not significant. It represents about 100 responses.
The candidates were mostly coming from web dev social media channels.

# How long, in months, have you been applying for a job?

The average number of months was 5 months. The longest someone was looking was 18 months.

# How many companies have you applied to?

The average number was 71 companies. The most significant number was 300.

# How many companies gave a response? Either a positive or negative response.

Only 23% of companies gave a response.

# When you received feedback, What was the feedback?

90% of responses were a generic template that said one of the follow
* "You are not a good fit for us."
* "We went with another candidate."

10% provided actionable feedback on the candidate's CV or interview.
* "Improve the README on your Github profile."
* "Cater your CV for the job you are applying for."

# What size companies are you applying to?
90% of respondents had no preference for company size.
10% wanted to work in smaller companies of less than 500 employees.


# In summary
As a hiring manager who has frustrations with hiring, I can see it isn't pleasant for the candidates. Low response rates coupled with low-quality feedback from companies can be very demoralising to getting your first job.   

If you want to get help with getting a job, sign up for my newsletter or pick a time in my [calendar](https://calendly.com/podgeypooos/)

I do not charge. I intend to help people who are struggling with getting a job. The only thing that I ask of you is that in the future when you are in a position to help someone, you will.


# Next up
In the last 4 to 5 years I have taken part in approximately 1000 interviews, in each interview i asked the candidate their salary expectations.In my next post, I will give a view of those salaries expectations.