---
layout: singlepost
tags: post
title: "Returning to work"
subtitle: "When some of your staff are remote and some are in an office"
description: "I worked in a startup a few years back that had some remote staff and some onsite staff, this is what we learned from experimenting with collaboration " # Quotation marks allow colons, semicolons, etc.
author: Padraig O'Brien
date: 2021-05-03T21:30:00 # This would be 9:30 PM (2130) UTC on February 28, 2020
lastmod: 2020-05-03T21:30:00 # Comment-out this line with a # if content is unchanged
draft: true # Make it "true" if you don't want Hugo to "publish" yet
featured_image: globe-life-park-rangers-1402096_6000x4000.jpg # Or whatever image you want to use
featured_image_alt: "Baseball game at Globe Life Park, Arlington, Texas" # Always include an ALT tag for accessibility --  Quotation marks allow colons, semicolons, etc.
featured_image_caption: "Image: rwelborn; Pixabay" # Quotation marks allow colons, semicolons, etc.
---

A couple of years back I was in a startup.
it was a small company, less than 20 people.
We had an opportunity to hire a amazing developer.
The problem was that they lived over two and half hours away by train.
They were not in a position to move to be closed to the office.

We agreed with the developer we would hire the them and get them to come to the office once a week.
That one day we would do our planning and collaborating.
Every other day we would dial them in, zoom was not a thing back then, we used google meetup.

We decided we would all gather around a TV every morning and do our standup, we would dial our remote developer in.
There would be a camera mounted on the TV and we would use the microphone attached to the PC.

Problem
First thing we noticed that it was all well and good for everyone in the office.
The remote dev did not have the same thought.
People standing away from the microphone were hard to hear.
Side conversations happened off camera.
If multiple people were talking at the same time it was difficult for the remote person to hear.
People had to fit into the view of the camera also.

solution
Lets invest a little money on imrproved audio and visual.
We bought a jabra type  speakerphone device to improve audio.

Problem
While it did improve audio quality It did not improve it enough for the remote devs.

At this point a few of us started doing a couple of days a week at home.

Things got worse when doing standups.

multiple people now were trying to hear and be heard.
We found that sometimes folks were using the embeded microphone on their laptop.
This was not great, it picked up on a lot of background noise. some folks were in noisey areas.

We invested in the next level up in hardware in the office.
We spent upwards of 5k on improved camera(wide angle) and audio speakers.

the scenario was.
some people crowded around a TV with good audio equipement.
some people at home with varying quality of audio.
none of this worked. 
The quality was too varied and incosnistent.

We could not hear each other.
also we had to remember to actually start the google meet.
on more than one occasion we were half way through standup and only then remembered to start it.

Home process - everyone is sitting down at their laptop.
Offic process - everyone was doing a standup around a TV

it led to the people at home talking more and the people in the office getting tired and irritated with having to stand for 30 mins


We changed tactics at this point.
It was agreed that there should be one process as oppposed to one for office and one for home.

The process was.
Everyone at their laptop.
Everyone dialled into the google meeting.
One person sharing their screen and running standup
We standardised our audio equipement with Bose QC35 first generation headphone(not my choice)

This had a transformative affect on not only our standups but our meetings.








What we learned from joe working from home and having one person in the office
One process for everyone and that process is remote 
When doing meetings , do them at your desk
We experimented with five people in a meeting room and two at home, it was bad , poor sound quality and not being able to see what was on the board
We spent a lot of money improving the audio setup , but it was not a transformative change 
We forgot to start the virtual meeting a couple of times to return to our desks with a bunch of missed slack messages
It forces the remote folk to come to the office more 